My Foo Fighters (Stern, 2023) strategy:

# Basic strategy points

* First, whenever I shoot the spinner, I'll try to intentionally glance the captive ball to the left of the spinner to get some UFO charges along the way.
  * For that reason, I like to start with New York, because the spinner's always lit.
* **Skill shots strategy:** I like going for the drop targets skill shot to get a free bomb upgrade, after which I'll go for the regular skill shot combo starting at the left crossover. Or if I'm close to starting something valuable such as Austin Multiball, I'll go for the Rock-O-Meter lane skill shot to progress towards 2x playfield.
* **Van mod strategy:** If I have 1-2 drop targets down and the MOD-ulator light is on bomb upgrades, I'll try to complete the targets and go for bomb upgrades. If I have a decent bomb upgrade level, and I haven't played Chicago yet, I like to go for max speaker **and** bomb levels, then Chicago to cash it in. Start Chicago with 8 shots spotted and +2M base shot value, smack that UFO button to spot a 2x shot for about 10M, shoot straight for the final shot at the Overlord for a Bomb + Time Bonus of about 70M. If I'm feeling greedy I might also try to get some engine upgrade levels as well, since engine level 1 adds about 10M to the Time Bonus and each additional level adds another 5M or so. This also works great on Roswell.
* **Overlord Multiball strategy:** All My Life Multiball isn't very valuable unless you get the Super Jackpot, so I like to stack it with LA instead and use it as a utility multiball.
* **Combotron strategy:** If I have a good combo going, I'll try to extend it *unless* only the side ramp and side loop are lit for Combotron (i.e. the last shot in the combo was the center spinner or the left crossover) or something important is lit at the Overlord (e.g. final shot to complete a city mode, 2x hurry-up in Chicago, etc.) in which case I'll go for the combo collect at the Overlord. Or if I've already collected 3 very good combos, I'll go for the combo collect more to get Combotron Multiball.

# Simple(ish) Route

This is a less complicated route, suitable for tournament and league match play games, since as long as you complete New York and one city after that, you should be putting up a decent score.

* I like to start with New York, as I mentioned above. I'll largely ignore the higher-value roving shot, since I'm not going for score yet here, I want those UFO charges and mode progress. Center spinner, side ramp to feed the right flipper, repeat until either I have a couple UFO charges or the final shot’s lit.
* From there, the mode I pick at each step depends on whether or not I have 2-3 UFO charges.
  * With 2-3 UFO charges:
    1. Head to Chicago. If the arrow starts flashing rapidly, the 2x is about to time out so I'll smack the button to spot the shot.
    2. If I've already done Chicago, or if I'm 1-2 Overlord hits away from All My Life Multiball, I head to Los Angeles. In LA, the 3 ramps are initially lit, then after you hit one, for a few seconds the shot you hit becomes unlit but the other 2 are lit for 2x. So I make one shot, then go for the combo. If I miss, I hit the button to spot a shot.
    3. Head to Roswell, and smack that UFO button whenever the green arrow is adjacent to the orange arrow. Note that once they overlap, the shot counts as green and therefore is only worth 1x.
  * With 0-1 UFO charges:
    1. Head to New Orleans and do spinner -> side ramp combos, again trying to glance the captive ball for UFO charges. Note that the side ramp and side loop count double (when lit) in New Orleans, so on the first combo, I'll hit the spinner, light the second shot on only the spinner, and the (unlit) side ramp shot is mainly to feed the ball back to the right flipper as well as practice for the second combo. Then the second time, I hit the sole lit shot on the spinner, which relights everything else, then I hit the side ramp for the double. Rinse and repeat.
    2. If I've already done New Orleans, I head to Seattle. On Prem / LE, I'll aim for the right ramp on the first shot and try to progress towards Area 51 Multiball. Then I'll try for spinner -> side ramp -> spinner -> side ramp -> left ramp. Note that the spinner won't be lit for the second spinner shot in this sequence -- at that point the side ramp and side loop will be the lit shots, so I'm shooting the spinner both to glance the captive ball for UFO charge and to get the ball to the upper right flipper.
  * Note that you can hold up to 3 UFO charges, and it charges up twice as fast if you're holding 1 or 2. The action button and the insert behind the captive ball light up yellow when you have 1 charge, green when you have 2, and red when you have 3. If you have 1 in stock, depending on the situation you may want to consider holding onto it even if you're in Chicago or LA.
  * Between Austin and DC, I find Austin is usually the higher scoring one. I'll save Austin for ball 3, or if I complete all 6 regular cities, whichever comes first, to increase the base jackpot value. Ideally I'll try to bring in 3 UFO charges and at least a level 2 Rock-O-Meter so I'm one right orbit shot away from starting 2x playfield. I'll use the UFO button if (a) 2x playfield is about to time out and I have a good super jackpot multiplier, or (b) I'm about to drain out of the multiball, to collect the super jackpot, and hopefully an add-a-ball as well. When I'm down to 2 balls and no playfield multiplier but at least 1 UFO button charge, I'll prioritize the regular jackpots (red arrows) to increase the super jackpot multiplier until I get it up to a decent amount (at least 5x, ideally 7x or higher), since I can collect the super via UFO button if I'm about to drain back down to 1 ball.
 
# The "Go Big or Go Home" Strategy

This strategy is for trying to put up a high score on the leaderboards. My priorities here are (1) reaching Final Battle, (2) maximizing value in Final Battle and mini-wizard modes (particularly Foobot and Austin multiballs), then (3) maximizing value along the way, in that order.

Strategy points, in addition to the above:

* The biggest difference from the above route is that if I'm not in a mode and I'm at the point where I have to complete the targets on each side of the Overlord to progress towards Monkey Wrench or Pretender Multiball, I'll go out of my way for those so that subsequent Overlord shots can also progress towards multiball.
  * The right Overlord target is a tighter shot than it looks, because it's easy to nick the bot target on the left side of the right ramp. It's backhandable, and the song "Learn to Fly" happens to be just the right BPM to time it -- cradle on the right flipper, release on the beat, and flip on the next beat (one quarter note later).
* Don't sleep on the Sonic Radio. After my first Overdrive save, I'll aim for the Sonic Radio targets to relight it immediately. I'll also aim for it whenever a mystery award is lit, unless I have something else really important and time-sensitive, e.g. trying to cash in van mods in Chicago or Roswell.
* I try to use All My Life and Area 51 as utility multiballs. Possibly Combotron Multiball as well, if I went in with not very good combos. In particular, when MOD-ulator Frenzy is ready, I'll try to stack it with a multiball and just go nuts hammering away at the MOD-ulator paddle as much as possible.
* 2x left ramp is the most important permanent shot multiplier to get, since it's the most backhandable of the 6 shots you can get a 2x shot multiplier on. Thankfully it's also the easiest, just complete a city in one visit scoring at least 50M. Next priorities are 2x left crossover (score the radio jackpot in Supersonic Radio) and 2x side ramp (score 25M in Combotron Multiball).

The route:

1. Start in New York, making sure to nick the captive ball.
2. After completing New York, I'll bash the captive ball if I'm not already at 3 UFO button charges, then head to Los Angeles *without* trying to stack it with All My Life Multiball. Instead, I try to do as much of the mode as I can in one big combo. Once I get a 2+ combo, if I miss and the combo's about to time out (green arrows blinking rapidly), I smack the UFO button to spot a shot and continue the combo.
3. From here on out, I pick cities based on what I have available:
    1. If I have a bunch of van mod levels, I'll max out my UFO button charges if I haven't already, then head to Chicago, or Roswell if I've already completed Chicago. Both are high-value modes that are great for cashing in van mods. I may even head to Chicago earlier in the route, and maybe even Roswell, if I happen to fall bass ackwards into a ton of van mod levels early on. For example, if I accidentallly start All My Life Multiball prematurely, I'll often use it as a utility multiball to go for van mod levels.
    2. I try to stack Seattle with an Overlord multiball and/or Area 51 Multiball. Ideally I'll have made some progress towards Area 51 in LA, so I'll start Seattle by shooting for the right ramp and then trying to start Area 51.
    3. I use New Orleans to progress towards Monkey Wrench or Pretender Multiball, once I've gotten past the phase where I have to complete the Overlord stand-up targets. Start New Orleans by hitting the Overlord twice, then since I have to pick a different shot, I'll go for the center spinner -> side ramp twice, then back to Overlord.
4. I'll save Austin and DC for when I've completed all 6 regular cities, to maximize jackpot values. Same strategy as above -- bring in 3 UFO button charges and ideally a level 2 Rock-O-Meter, focus on having a big super ready when down to 2 balls, collect it via UFO button if draining back down to 1 ball. Hopefully by this point I'll have a few Foobot parts upgraded for the 2x shot multipliers.
5. At this point, if I don't already have Foobot Multiball ready, I'll try to complete whatever requirements I'm missing for it. I make sure to bring in a maxed UFO button, and start by going for the tougher shots (right ramp, right orbit) but if I take a few shots and don't hit them, I'll go for one of the others first just to make sure I make it to the add-a-balls.
6. Pretender Multiball is usually the last requirement I need to reach Final Battle, and I've only ever reached it on ball 3, so I play it carefully and under control, keeping at least one ball cradled at all times to make sure I don't double drain. I also won't use my UFO button on Pretender, so I can save it for Final Battle.
7. At last, Final Battle time! I actually don't risk charging my UFO button beforehand -- instead, if I drain with ball save active in any of the first 3 phases, I manually full plunge, which on a lot of machines will send the ball into the captive ball. Also note that the ball save is roughly 1 minute *per phase*, i.e. the timer resets at the start of each phase. Ideally I'd also like to bring in a level 2 Rock-O-Meter, but I won't risk going for that beforehand either.
    1. Phase 1 is fairly straightforward, just complete 3 of each color shot as quickly as possible. Keep in mind that shooting the captive ball for UFO button charges may be safer and faster than the right ramp, especially if the ball is on the right flipper. I'll only use the UFO button when I have 2 or 3 charges (green or red) in phases 1-3 so it recharges faster.
    2. Phase 2 is also fairly straightforward, just 1 of each shot. I'll try for the left crossover and side ramp first. UFO button and recharging is also usually faster than trying to get the side loop, since it's a finicky shot and getting the ball back up to the upper flipper takes a few valuable seconds. If I find myself one right orbit shot away from starting 2x playfield, I'll use the UFO button to collect the right orbit to avoid starting 2x playfield prematurely. Ideally I'll start it during phase 4, which is the most valuable.
    3. In phase 3, I'll try for at least 4 unique shots (center spinner, side ramp, left ramp, and left crossover are the easiest in my experience) then Overlord, which deals a total of 45% damage in 5 shots, still trying to nick the captive ball when shooting the center spinner unless I have a maxed UFO button. 6 unique shots (including Overlord, if it's the 6th shot) deals 63% damage, so a 5-shot sequence plus a 6-shot sequence is enough to light the final shot to complete the phase. Or an 8-shot sequence will also get there right away, so I'll also make an attempt or two at the right ramp + upper playfield shots, but I won't waste too much time trying it if I can't make it. Assuming I still have time and ball save active, I'll make sure to max out the UFO button for phase 4.
    4. Phase 4 is where the biggest points are. It also has a generous ball save, so I won't cradle and I'll go all gas, no brakes until the ball save runs out and I'm back down to 2-3 balls, and even then I'll still play somewhat aggressively since this phase has a time limit of 150 seconds. I'll just let the balls fly in the general direction of the Overlord until I light a super jackpot (both Overlord targets, then Overlord shot), then I'll go for the super. The super is worth a ton of points, adds a ball, *and* extends or reactivates ball save for a few seconds, so it's *extremely* valuable. If the super is on a hard shot (side loop, right ramp, right orbit) then I'll UFO button it. Note that UFO at the captive ball is unlit for this phase, *but* a left crossover shot relights it for a couple seconds, so if I'm down to 1 UFO button charge I'll also try for the left crossover then captive ball.

# Additional Resources
* [Tilt Forums rulesheet](https://tiltforums.com/t/foo-fighters-rulesheet/8162)
* [Official rulesheet](https://sternpinball.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/03/Foo-Fighters-Rule-Sheet_031124-compressed.pdf)
