Here's my strategy for King Kong (Stern, 2025).

*Note: As of this writing, the latest code is V0.84.0, and plenty of features have not yet been implemented, including Cliffhanger, Power-Up, Window Shopping, and 8th Wonder. Strategy is subject to change with future code updates. Likewise, since the late-game modes are not yet implemented, this is less of a route and more of a set of strategy points.*

* Right out of the gate, I like try and plunge to the upper left mini-flipper and immediately hit the action button to go for the Mega Secret Skill Shot at the cliffs ramp, then if I make it, I'll go for the Triple Mega Secret Skill Shot at the U-turn. If I get at least the Mega Secret, I'll use the extra ball save time to hit the pit targets a couple times, and also the gong if I'm playing on the Premium. On subsequent balls, if I've already gotten the Triple Mega, I may go for the Super Skill Shot at the river lane instead for the King Kong letter, especially if I'm getting close to Deadeye or T-Rex Battle.
* The gong is safer as a backhand from the right flipper. On most copies I've played, it's roughly a dotted eighth note to the main BGM -- release the flipper button on the beat, flip 3/4ths of a beat later.
* I pick Island Scene modes based on board state:
  * The first stack I like to go for is Save Ann + Giant Spider Multiball, because the 3 shots for +1x jackpot during Giant Spider Multiball are also value build shots for Save Ann.
    * Before starting: If I'm 1 hit away from lighting Pit Multiball, I'll go for that before the gong shot to start an Island Scene. Note that which multiball you get depends on which of the 3 blue inserts is lit in front of the Pit, and the light roves between the multiballs you haven't played yet when Pit Multiball is ready. The bottom insert is Giant Spider Multiball. When I'm about to aim for the gong, I'll take note of where the roving light is. Note that as of V0.84, the light turns off during the Select Island Scene menu, but it continues to move invisibly. I track *approximately* where that roving light is, and I want to hit the action button to select Save Ann when it's on the top insert or about to move there. Then during the intro cutscene, I wait for the light to move from the top to the middle insert, and when the middle insert blinks for the 4th time, I press both flipper buttons to skip the cutscene. If you time it right, the ball will be fed to the right inlane just after the light moves to the bottom insert and you can shoot it on the fly.
    * Once I start Giant Spider Multiball, I'll immediately go for right spinner to light jackpot -> cliffs ramp for +1x jackpot -> biplane ramp for another +1x jackpot -> center ramp for another +1x jackpot. Once ball save runs out, I'll go for the add-a-ball via Island Mystery if it's lit. Note that if you have two balls cradled on the right flipper, a quick tap will usually send one ball into the Kong Cave. Then I'll just loop the right spinner to build up the jackpot, cradling at the upper left flipper for a few seconds after each shot. If I missed some of the +1x jackpot shots, I'll continue going for the cliffs ramp and the center ramp, while I'll only go for the biplane ramp if a ball happens to find its way to the upper right flipper somehow -- otherwise it's not worth the risk. I'll try to keep one ball on the right flipper (river lane then ski pass is usually a pretty safe way to get a ball there) so if I mess up the center spinner shot and drain back down to one ball, I can immediately use the other ball to try and collect the jackpot during the grace period. If I accidentally start 2x playfield, which happens sometimes by nicking the stand-up target next to the right spinner, I'll go for another spinner rip or two then try to collect the jackpot before 2x scoring times out. Or if I happen to have 2x scoring active and I've maxed out the jackpot at 25M, I might try to start 2x scoring before trying to collect the jackpot.
    * My second stack is Pterodactyl Attack + King Kong Multiball, because they're both focused on the drop targets. I'll also try to use my first Island Lock on this, and if I get that stack as well, I'll play Pterodactyl Attack normally until the ball save runs out, *then* start King Kong MB. Note that as of V0.84 code, Island Scene timers pause during King Kong MB and Pit MBs when they're at 15 seconds or less, which makes the Island Lock stack all the more powerful. Once King Kong MB starts, I'll immediately go for the 5M award at the biplane ramp if I'm on a Premimum / LE machine, then while ball save is active, I'll go for a Sweep Combo (sweep 2+ adjacent drop targets -> left orbit -> biplane ramp). Once I have jackpots lit, I'll try to complete the green arrows and ball relock *if* I already have the left orbit down, since that one requires a full left orbit shot to collect. Then I'll aim for the double jackpot at the cliffs ramp and try to combo that into a super jackpot. During all this, if I have the Kong Cave lit for Pterodactyl Attack and 2 balls cradled on the right flipper, I'll try to backhand it.
    * If I've already played Save Ann and Pterodactyl Attack and I have an Island Lock, I'll use it on Escape the Swamp.
    * If I don't have any multiball ready, I'll usually go for Stegosaurus Encounter. I'll go for the hard path shots, but if I miss the U-turn on the 3rd or 6th shot, or my left orbit shot for the 5th shot doesn't go all the way around, I'll take the easy path shot, since feeding the upper right flipper eats up valuable time.
    * My second single-ball Island Scene is Cross the Chasm. This one's fairly straightforward -- right spinner to feed the upper left flipper, then cliffs ramp -> U-turn. The mode gives you enough time to cradle for a second on the upper left flipper, which I find helps my consistency immensely for the cliffs ramp.
