Below is my strategy for Star Trek (Stern, 2013):

# Strategy

1. I start by picking Klingon Battle I. While the ball save is lit on ball 1, I'll try for the warp ramp to light extra ball, or at least make some progress towards it. If the ball save's about to run out, I might intentionally let it drain to send the ball back up top.
2. Pick Klingon Battle II, complete it by backhanding the left ramp 6 times, then shoot the Away Team shot to start Klingon Battle III.
3. If I time out KB III, I'll restart it until I complete it to get 2x left ramp for the rest of the game. Around this point is a good time to start Klingon Multiball or Vengeance Multiball if I'm close to either one. I'll go for Klingon MB if I have all 3 locks lit, otherwise Vengeance if I have enough photon torpedoes ready at the action button to light it.
4. Next is Nero. Nero I is another good mode to stack Klingon MB or Vengeance MB. Then for Nero II, I'll go for the left ramp -> right ramp -> left scoop combo. On some copies of Pro, the left scoop kickout can be rather dangerous, in which case I'll go for the left orbit instead. Or if I miss and catch it on the left flipper, I'll just backhand the left orbit, since it's a pretty easy backhand while passing to the right flipper to shoot the left scoop for 2x isn't worth the risk.
5. At last, the first major payoff in this route: Nero III. If I'm close to 2x scoring (Warp 9.1 or 9.9), I'll try to start that right before Nero III. In Nero III, there are two roving shots, one that starts at the left scoop and moves one to the right with each left flipper button press, wrapping around from the right orbit back to the left scoop, and another that starts at the right orbit and moves left with each right flipper button press. If both shots are on the same arrow, it's worth 2x. Here I want to catch the ball, tap the flipper buttons so that my next flip will line up both shots on the left ramp, and shoot for the left ramp. If the ball is on the left flipper, this means having the shot controlled by the right flipper button on the left ramp and the left flipper button's shot on the warp ramp, so that it moves to the left ramp when I shoot. Then, as the ball is coming back down, I quickly tap the left flipper button exactly 6 times to line up the arrows again then backhand the left ramp. Repeat for a total of 6 shots for a crapload of points. That's 2x for having the two shots overlapping, times 2x left ramp from Klingon Battle III, and potentially times 2x scoring from Warp 9.1 or 9.9, for 8x value. And at this point the base shot value is likely over 1M. I've broken 50M mode total a couple times before doing this.
6. Time for the second big payoff. Completing Nero III lights 2x on the left orbit for the rest of the game, and completing any level III mode in one try adds a nice boost to the base shot values, so it's time to milk that left orbit for all it's worth. The Away Team for Destroy the Drill is on the left orbit and quite lucrative, so I like to go for it first, especially if I still have 2x scoring still running. Then the Away Teams for Prime Directive and Save the Enterprise also light the left orbit for good value, so I go for those.
7. Finally, Space Jump I just to light Kobayashi Maru Multiball. The medal cash-in at the start of Kobayashi Maru can be multiplied by the 2x scoring from Warp 9.1 or 9.9, so this is another good place to start 2x scoring.

# Additional resources:

* [Tilt Forums rulesheet](https://tiltforums.com/t/star-trek-wiki/456)
